[Music]
well thanks for joining me today
uh my name is dave kellogg i currently
work as an eir at baldergen capital out
of london and today we're going to talk
about the top five mistakes in scaling
up a startup i have a bunch of operating
experience i've been ceo of two startups
ah there we go
i've been cmo of three startups for a
combined 30 years of operating
experience
including companies like business
objects where i was cmo
as we scaled from 30 million to a
billion in revenue so that was a nine
year journey
i've been ceo of two startups one i
scaled from eight million to fifty
million the other i scaled from zero to
eighty million so i have a lot of
experience in growing startups as an
operating person
and then on the advising side i'm an
angel investor in about 20 companies
i've advised about 20 companies i've sat
on the board of directors of seven
companies
and i think it gives me a kind of a 360
degree view on a software company
because i've you know i've been in the
chair as a cmo or ceo and i've been on
the board so you can kind of see it from
both sides which is hard to do
and some of the companies i've advised
include in europe noxio out of paris
pigment out of paris as well
that does performance management and
their ceo eleanor speaking today at two
o'clock plug for her uh recorded future
a swedish american company i was
advising scoro an estonian company in
work management where i'm on the board
of directors as well as some bigger more
global names after that
so that's who i am
in addition to all that i also write a
blog and if you've not visited i hope
you do it's called kel blog
in french it accidentally means what a
blog
so uh in any case that was an accident
um and uh i will be posting the slides
to this presentation
on the blog later today
so if you're here congratulations first
it's wonderful to be in barcelona and
second it means you're thinking about
scale up which is great
because scale up is what happens really
after you hit product market fit and so
much of a startup you know marc
andreessen breaks the life of a startup
in two
at product market fit there's kind of
you know a d and you know whatever it is
ce and ca whatever is common error and
before common eric that's the way we
think about startups and a lot of
content and a lot of energy is spent on
figuring out do we have product market
fit
right and market driessen has blogged
about it those are all links uh in the
slides so if you download them you can
link to these articles but andreessen
has written great stuff
on product market fit a guy named sean
ellis has a test that i like which is
you survey your users and a 40 or more
would be very disappointed if you took
away your software that's how he defines
product market fit kind of a clever
definition
um
you know my definition is more typical
it's have you found someone
to sell something
to solve some problem right that's it
someone something some problem and sell
right they it can't just be oh you solve
a problem for me
it has to be you solve a problem for me
that i'm willing to pay to be solved
but if you have that if you have someone
to sell something to solve some problem
then you have pmf
in my opinion
and
and you enter scale up somewhere between
2 and 10 million in arr
right and you're no longer in
founder-led sales
the founder isn't out on every sales
call
and the product is really no longer
minimum viable
so this is what it means to me to be
entering scale up
and when you enter scale up you might
think wow
we solved all the hard questions
because establishing product market fit
is hard
right trying to figure out who that
buyer persona is and what problem you're
going to solve and how much they'll pay
for it
right and how to talk about the problem
you're solving that's all really hard so
you might go
the hard stuff is behind us
but that's not true in fact there's a
lot of hard questions as you enter scale
up right questions like how hard should
we step on the gas
in growing our go to market do we have
the right people on the team
do we have a repeatable sales formula
we'll spend a lot of time today
talking about repeatability
because it's such a core concept and
it's so undefined right everyone goes do
you have a repeatable sales model you'll
go yeah yeah i do and then you say well
what do you mean by that
how do you define repeatability
and the answer is most people don't have
a good definition
and that causes a lot of trouble
because if you think you have
repeatability you step on the gas hard
right
and if you're wrong you can burn a lot
of money so we'll talk about
repeatability do you have the right
support and enablement
what's your plan for international
what shape will the company be at 100
million how much will come from which
segments of your business or if you have
multiple products which products but at
a high level you know i worked at one
company but we hit 100 million we were
actually 250 million dollar businesses
it really there was one vertical
practice in government one vertical
practice in media and it was if we had
two 50 million dollar businesses but
when i joined business objects we were
like three 10 million dollar businesses
a uk a us and a french operation
so what shape will you have and if you
think about the shape you want to have
now that will help you going forward
how do you stay focused in an idea du
jour environment right where
board members with all good intentions
are asking you are we gonna have a run
rate business are we gonna do plg are we
gonna have a second product right all
these people who are trying to help you
are asking you a lot of questions that
can cause you to lose focus and that's
really hard to manage
should you make a second album you know
jason lemkin has done an interesting
series of blog posts and tweets about
when a startup needs its second product
and that's a question you're going to be
asking yourselves the entire journey
from 10 to 100 when do i need and do i
need a second product in my opinion most
people start too early
right if
if you really have a 5 billion dollar
tam for the thing that you just built
and pitched why do we need a second
product
and the answer is someday we will but in
his research for enterprise companies
it's between one and 300 million it's a
long ways off we'll talk more about that
and
and this one's my personal favorite
when should you start worrying about
technical debt
because it takes 13 years to get a
company from inception to ipo
that's enough time to accumulate a
staggering amount of technical debt if
all you do is have product managers
prioritize features and keep adding
features to the house of cards
it may tip over one day
so how do we think about that
so those are some of the questions you
have when you enter scale up so we still
have questions and they're still hard
but they're different it's not about
product market fit anymore
so that said here are the top five
mistakes that i think
companies make and because i knew this
was a european audience i've dialed it a
little bit for kind of european
companies but but mostly just companies
make
in scaling up so one prematurely
accelerating go to market
number two putting or more likely
keeping
people in the wrong roles
three losing focus
for
messing up u.s expansion
and five
accumulating debilitating technical debt
so we're going to talk about those five
things in this presentation
and let's jump in to the first one
so
this is in my opinion by far by far the
number one mistake
you've just raised a lot of money
you just put out a very aggressive
financial plan to raise that money
you're feeling a lot of pressure to grow
fast
and you're hoping you have repeatability
you're not sure
but you kind of just hope you do
because not having it is kind of too
scary
and defining it is too hard so we kind
of say okay i hope i have a repeatable
model but i know
i have an aggressive expectation for my
investors so i'm going to step on the go
to market gas hard
and when you do that
if you do so prematurely
it looks something like you go from
three sales people to 13 sales people in
two months
and a year later you're back down to
three
right
that's what this looks like because
you've hired 10 people tried to ramp
them nobody was successful and the whole
thing fell apart
and then a few million dollars wasted
you say i wonder if i had a repeatable
model
or or maybe we didn't do enough to
define repeatability
right so that's this problem and it
happens
first as i said because you prematurely
think you have repeatability second
because you're under bored pressure uh
and third because you've i call this a
spreadsheet induced hallucination but
you spent enough time with some
spreadsheet and played with the numbers
enough and you've convinced yourself
that that you have repeatability based
on the spreadsheet
so
you know the world's worst reason to
hire a salesperson is is what i have on
the slide there
if i don't hire one we have no chance of
making plan
so i may as well hire one
and a lot of salespeople have been hired
on that logic
and that's terrible terrible logic
right because that sales person as we'll
see in a minute will be deceptively
expensive
and if the only
you should want to hire them because you
think they can be productive right
that's the correct reason to hire a
seller the incorrect reason is
oh my gosh i won't have enough capacity
according to the spreadsheet if i don't
hire three now so i'll hire these three
even though i don't love them and even
though i'm not sure if the marketing has
generated enough pipeline for them and
even though and even though and we do it
anyway and this mistake if you get it
wrong it will cost you millions of
dollars because it will most certainly
cost the head of sales their job it will
wound the founder ceo you'll lose
millions the investors will have reduced
confidence in you and employees they'll
have watched the whole train wreck that
they will have reduced confidence in the
company and its future direction all
because we stepped on the gas too hard
and one of the ways i try to convince
people to be careful of this
is to remind them how much it costs to
hire a salesperson
because the wrong way to think about it
is oh if they cost 300k
and they're 150k base 150k variable if
they don't sell anything well they only
cost me 150k
right that's kind of the myopic way of
looking at things the right way to look
at it is holistically and say wait
they're ote there aren't target earnings
is 300k they're going to cost 180k for
two-thirds and you could adjust these
numbers to your local market but do the
exercise right so i'm hiring a seller
i'm hiring two-thirds of an sc
i'm hiring two-thirds of an sdr to work
with them a sixth of a sales manager
and probably 100k in marketing a typical
opportunity in enterprise and mid-market
costs between two and four thousand
dollars to generate so if we're going to
generate between 20 and 50 of those
we're gonna spend a hundred thousand
dollars in marketing to support this
seller so all in that person cost me
seven hundred thousand dollars
uh to make that bet
and that's the way you should think
about it because you should be pretty
sure you're going to get something back
for your 700k
and by the way the worst part about
hiring bad ones to me
it's not it's not the fact that you
waste a few million dollars that's bad
but the heartbreaking part is is
watching the deal you lost speak at your
competitors user conference right that's
heartbreaking seeing them on their
website knowing you were in that deal
and you were competing for that business
and you could have solved that problem
but you sent a bad team in and you lost
and now for the next four years you're
gonna have to look at that person on
your competitor's website that's the
part that kills me
so the way i think the wrong way to
think about this is impaired but
contributing
oh they're not that productive but at
least they're selling something
and that's better than nothing so we'll
keep them limping along
right that's bad logic
the better logic is the opportunity cost
what if you had someone good in that
slot who would have won that deal and
that big reference would be on your
website not the other guy's website
so the test i have for this as simple as
those who read my blog know i'm very
quantitative and we'll talk about
quantitative ways to measure this but i
also like listening to your gut
sometimes and the gut test on this is
simple
are you proud they represent your
company that was always the test for me
if a seller was having trouble hitting
their numbers i would go on calls with
them and watch them and say this person
understands our product they ask good
questions to the customer i'm proud they
represent my company they can keep
trying
and conversely right if you're not proud
they represent your company you should
probably get rid of them tomorrow
right so try to use that as a test we'll
talk about numbers as well
but but go with your gut listen to some
gong calls go on some sales meetings
with them and if they're not the right
person
remember the old venture capital adage
you could never fire someone too early
right because by the time you're even
thinking about it there's been a lot of
damage done
so the first time i heard this i was
young and i thought it was really mean
and the older i get the more i believe
it i'm like no no they were right
because especially as ceo by the time
you know about a problem there's been a
lot of things going wrong for a long
time
right it takes a while for you to find
out
so if you have one of those people
you're not proud of move on them
now
how do we avoid this mistake
and the answer is we need to be
realistic in self-assessment i do think
that advisors and directors can help you
if you have good people on your board or
good advisors you work with you should
grab them and just say i'm trying to
figure out how hard to accelerate right
now
and let them ask you questions right
because they will tend to be more honest
than you are
especially if they're independent so
they're not bringing pressure right an
investor may pressure you more because
they really want you to hit that plan
but an independent advisor or director
will usually be more objective and say
okay let's talk about repeatability
that's the first thing second
hire according to empirical indicators
not the financing plan
super important right especially if you
just raise money which i hope you did
because it was a lot easier in the last
12 months so it's going to be in the
next 12 months
but if you just raise money you've got a
pretty aggressive plan out there and in
your head you want to go hit that
and that plan says you need to spend
this much on marketing and this much on
sales
and that plan is a terrible reason to go
spend money
right
so so think of a plan as a tool to help
you raise money and establish a
direction you want to go in but once you
have the money in my opinion unless
you're pe backed which is a whole
different deal you put the plan away
and then you look at empirical
indicators you say is now the right time
to hire a salesperson or to invest more
in marketing
so
look at empirical indicators like quota
attainment
what percent of your sellers are hitting
their quota forecast accuracy
are you coming in where you think you're
going to come in
pipeline growth and coverage
right because sellers need pipeline to
be successful
second beware pipeline discipline and
what i call the pipeline chicken and egg
problem
i.e what comes first the pipeline or the
sellers because sometimes ceos wait for
the pipeline to build before hiring
sellers and i think that's a mistake i
think they should do both in parallel
that once you're sure you can make use
productive use of resources
that you should hire the sellers at the
same time as you deploy dollars from
pipeline
so the next thing to do is to learn what
repeatability looks like because the
essence of all this in the end is
repeatability
and repeatability is like a holy grail
in enterprise software everyone's
seeking it but no one's really quite
sure what it is and i want to give you a
simple definition of repeatability
which is
if you take a standard input
and you apply a standard process do you
get a standard output
so standard input standard process
standard output what's the input look
like well that's a hiring profile what
kind of background do we want our
sellers to have
it's hiring criteria what yardstick do
we measure them against and it's
onboarding so we're going to take a
person who looks like this and we're
going to put them through this
onboarding class
and then standard process we're going to
give them our standard sales methodology
and tools
we're going to give them our standard
sales management
and we're going to give them our sales
process and methodology
so we take a standard person put them
through a standard training and tooling
and do we get a standard result
and the best way to measure that result
is attainment what percent of them hit
their number the problem is it takes
about a year to know that
right so we're going to need to find
indicators along the way but really the
true measure of this is you take the
cohort of reps you hired a year ago
and you say today
how many of them are productive
we can look at them as they ramp right
because most people will put them
against a ramped target and we can look
at their productivity how much are they
selling per person
but the real key to repeal repeatability
is if we take someone who looks like
this put them through our program
there's an 80 chance they'll be selling
a million or more a year in arr that's
repeatability if you have that then you
push all the accelerators forward
if you don't have that then we have to
figure out how to get that
so i do want to talk about attainment
for a minute because there's a lot of
nostalgia on attainment
and when i was an executive at software
companies we'd have these old board
members and they'd say well back in the
day
that if somebody missed their quota two
quarters in a row we'd fire them
i can't believe that you guys have all
these people who've missed their number
two quarters in a row
or they'd say back in the day we had 80
percent of our sellers at quota every
quarter
and the answer is probably no you didn't
first
you did not have on a quarterly basis in
an enterprise company 80 of your reps
every quarter you might have had 80
percent every year you might right 80
percent at hundred percent of quota on
an annual basis is very good on a
quarterly basis it's almost impossible
in enterprise because it tends to be
backloaded it's very hard to hit your
number every quarter
so i would just say beware of these
comments because while you're out trying
to find repeatability that's noise that
hurts you it doesn't help you
so my take personally if you can get 80
and 80
annually you're doing pretty darn well
and and by the way
you should also be on your financial
model
right i won't do the math but if you if
you have 8880 there's a very very good
chance you're at or ahead of plan we can
talk about why later
so
that was our first topic we spent most
of our time on it because i think it's
so important
that
we don't want to step on the gas too
hard too early because we're under
pressure we want to step on the gas
because we think we can make resources
productive and if we do that we'll avoid
premature go to market acceleration
the second mistake is wrong people in
the wrong roles and the easiest way to
think of this one
is one day cam i think was a recruiter
said to me he goes dave you're really a
figured out person figured out guy
and i said well what's the other type
and he goes well there's two types
there's figured outers and there's
scalar uppers and you're more figured
out or you like figuring it out you like
working with companies at a really early
stage for example to find mvp
and define sorry pmf product market fit
he's like yeah i do like that i like
figuring it out and if you look at your
startup and if you've worked at
different companies across your career
if you look at people you can start to
say oh that's a figured outer that's a
scale of upper right they're different
animals
and the people who got you from zero to
ten are almost by definition figure it
out earth
right if a scaled upper joined your
company at zero million dollars they
probably quit pretty quickly because
they're like oh i'm in the wrong place i
was at a very successful startup where
we were 5 million in arr and we hired a
scale it upper and now pretty famous
scaled up our sales vp and he quit in
like six months
because he's like i'm sorry you guys
aren't ready for me
i come with checklists and clipboards
and i want to put boots down in every
nfl city so every city that has a
football team we want to have sales reps
and i want to do my process
you guys aren't ready for that so the
best thing i can do is quit which was
actually excellent of him to do because
he was the wrong person for that job we
needed to figure it out
right who do we call on what do we tell
them what tools do we need
right so
and the other thing about these two
types of people is they don't always
like each other sometimes they actually
dislike each other right because the
figured outers think the scale of uppers
are not that smart or creative
and the scaled uppers think the figured
outers are kind of lunatics right like
you you could never get anything done i
mean you could do stuff by yourself but
but you could never build an
organization
and if you're good sales people there's
definitely figured out sales people
versus scaled up sales people
and a lot of sales people particularly
big companies are scalared up
right give me a playbook
and i just want to lather rinse repeat
my way to lots and lots of money
right that's all i want to do i'm not
here to win creativity awards i'm not
here to figure out hard problems i'm
here to make money tell me the playbook
and i will go execute it that is a
scaled up company seller a figured out
seller loves hard questions unanswered
problems
they don't like process when the process
people come in they get very
uncomfortable
right
figure it out sellers if you keep them
at your company too long they'll quit
quickly
scale it up sellers
sorry they will quit slowly
scale it up to the opposite they will
quit quickly if you hire them too early
right because they'll say this is the
wrong company
figure it out people are artisanal
they're really sales isn't art
scale it up they're industrial sales is
a process so on the left they're like
give me a telephone and a machete and i
can make my quota
on the right it's give me a territory
and a playbook and i can make my quota
so these are very different animals and
you'll find them at different all across
the company this is just one example
with respect to sellers
and the thing that's hard is finding
this balance because as you grow your
company
you're going to have loyalists people
who've been you been with you for a very
long time
and you want to be loyal back to them
but they're probably figured out people
they're not scaled up people
so what do you do when you have to scale
it up
that's hard because maybe they're not
the right person to lead sales anymore
i've worked with many startups where the
figured out sales vp had to leave when
we hit 10 million
and and i always feel bad about that
because i don't actually think they have
to leave i think they should be
redeployed like my answer is what do you
do with them
go find something else to figure out hey
you want to move to europe help us
figure out how to open europe right you
hey there's a new vertical we want to
sell to retail help us figure out how to
sell to retail so my advice is if
somebody is a figure it outer and you
know that and you need a scaled upper
just start with a blank list of problems
you need to figure out and try to
redeploy them
worst case you have to get rid of them
best case you could redeploy them i
think it shows that you value people i
think it's a creative use of the
resources
it's always an uncomfortable
conversation because that person doesn't
sometimes admit to themselves that
they're not a scaled upper i can scale
it up i'm really smart yeah but do you
like that
is that what really wakes you up in the
morning and the answer will be no if
they're honest with themselves no what
gets me out of bed is solving hard
problems
so building and scaling are different
you know again building is about a small
number of amazing creative unstoppable
people that's probably what you have at
your company today
it's about solving problems quality is
measured by individual excellence and
your motto is amazing people can do
anything
and when you talk to investors you talk
about your amazing people
and what are you doing you're blazing
trails in the jungle right you're going
where no company has gone before opening
a new market solving a new problem
scaling is very different it's about a
small number of amazing process and
infrastructure oriented leaders
leveraging a large number of great but
not necessarily amazing people
right they're not solving problems
they're building systems and processes
quality is about process not individual
excellence
and the motto is we help
great people do amazing things
right a very different philosophy than
the company on the left
and when you talk to investors you don't
talk about your amazing people anymore
you talk about your amazing machine
right because that's what they want to
invest in at that phase i want to invest
in a money-making machine
not a bunch of really smart people
opening a new market
and i dramatize this because it really
is a big change for the company as you
move from kind of a figure it out mode
to a scale it up mode mistake three
losing focus
i think it's very easy to lose focus i
think board members in particular at
least when i was a ceo they were always
burying me in ideas what if we do this
what if we do that we should do this we
should do plg we should do sas we should
do
consumerization we should do whatever it
is there was 10 of those a board meeting
and i'm sitting there on the one hand
going didn't you want me to build a
machine to pursue this five billion
dollar tam
can you guys leave me alone and let me
do that uh instead of giving me ten new
ideas a meeting uh and the answer is
look they're trying to be helpful the
first thing you need to understand is
anybody who walks into your office with
an idea is trying to be helpful they're
not trying to distract you uh be a board
member an advisor an investor an
employee a customer
anyone with an idea is trying to help
and your job is to listen
to understand the idea and then by and
large not do it
right because if you have a good plan
and a good strategy you need to go
execute that
so they're trying to be helpful the
thing that i did that does not work
is you try and throw them a bone
right i literally had a board member i
sold the enterprise software package for
250 000 asp and a board member told me
to paint it red and rent it in a board
meeting and i'm like okay what does it
mean to paint it red he wanted us to
build an appliance right and i don't
want to build an appliance so like what
problem does that solve for us and i
would get a series of those ideas every
meeting and i kind of put them into two
buckets one that you could only do over
my cold dead body on the left and the
other ones where if i can't you know if
i run out of excuses to say no i might
consider some of these and i actually
thought that if once in a blue moon i
said yes i'd kind of get some credit
right this kind of debits and credits
and this spiritual account balance it
was wrong because i did two of them
neither one worked and and i was not i
did not get a credit for trying i got to
fail
for failing
so it's like just don't do it my advice
don't do it if you don't want to do it
and you're the ceo don't do it don't
play
trading games or throwing a bone to a
board member just because you think
it'll get you something for two reasons
one it won't get you anything uh and two
you'll lose focus
in terms of second product i talked
about jason lemkin's work before but
he's done a series of tweets and blogs
and from his research to me from most
companies it's probably a hundred
million plus an arr and maybe multiple
the companies i work with multiple
enterprise companies multiple hundreds
of millions so if you're spending a lot
of time worrying about a second product
look if it's an integral part of your
strategy it's one thing but if you're
like uh-oh
people are going to ask me how i grow
and i need to say i'm selling something
new to our existing customers right new
product cost like customer existing new
product existing new right there's a
matrix where it's new customer sorry
existing customer new product
that's what they're asking about they
could probably wait
so for most of the people in this room
don't worry about your second album stay
focused that you know your company is
not a fund investors get diversification
by investing in 20 of you you don't have
to be diversified right diversification
is their problem not your problem your
problem is you're betting your whole
life on the success of this one company
right so go do that and do it well and
don't throw bones to people don't ever
do an idea that you don't want to do
just to make someone happy because your
job and your livelihood and your team's
livelihood is riding on it
number four is messing up u.s expansion
i won't cover this in depth here i'll
hardly cover it at all just because i'm
doing a series of blog posts on the
bollardson blog on this topic it's
literally like 30 pages long sorry
it got a little deep but i have a series
of six posts that talk about the top
five mistakes which are listed here
in expanding to the us because i i've
worked a lot of european companies on us
expansion and enough to see patterns and
what goes wrong and that those are the
the common mistakes
the uh let me see if there's one worth
talking about here oh my favorite one is
hiring the wrong people this one's fun
because americans always inflate their
resumes
and europeans are pretty modest by
comparison and that's a terrible
intersection right because you have
someone who's kind of modest
interviewing someone who they think is
modest and that person has created this
resume that makes them one founder
literally said to me these people are
gods
right because because he believed their
resume and it's like no you don't
believe the resume uh no american resume
is worth believing right you have to
kind of discount it back to reality and
then you know who you're talking to so
but there's four other mistakes hiring
the wrong people is one of them and if
you're just starting out one piece of
advice drill into resumes right ask what
did you do at that company were you a
driver of the bus or a passenger on the
bus
the
last mistake number five
is accumulating debilitating technical
debt
you know it takes on average 13 years to
build a public company
uh i guess it was 11 years for the 2021
cohort it was only 11.
but just think about what technology
looked like 11 years ago so that company
was founded in 2010 right aws was four
years old in the 500 billion business
new relic was two years old mongodb was
one year old react hasn't been developed
yet you have to wait a year uh
terraforming kubernetes wouldn't be
developed released for four more years
right so think about how much technology
has changed
in those 11 years and it's enough time
to accumulate a huge amount of technical
debt and literally i have one thing to
say about technical debt which is that
will kill you
and it will if you ignore it and you let
it accumulate you will eventually get to
a point where your product becomes
unmaintainable um and by the way that
takes around 11 years
so so who wants to be going public just
as your product becomes unmaintainable
right answer no one
so the way to avoid it is three things
one
well really two things hire and empower
strong architects
too few companies have an independent
architect not the vp of engineering who
keeps an eye on technical debt and the
architecture
critical role to have on your team the
second is do a trust release every four
to six cycles where you just say we're
going to go retire technical debt hey
architects take the lead work with the
pms to figure out what we're gonna do
and if you just do those two things
strong architect plus trust releases you
will spare yourselves a huge amount of
misery in the future
so ignore tech debt at your peril so to
wrap up
five things to think about as we scale
up one we need to understand
repeatability
and avoid accelerating gtm prematurely
second let's build a team of mixed of
loyalists and new hires third stay
focused on winning not doing people
favors
fourth start in the usa early and fifth
get a strong architect on board and
manage technical debt i think we'll be
doing an asp anything right after this
thanks so much for coming and if you
want them to stick around see you
[Applause]
so bootstrap trying to figure out how to
scale up
has a broken
microphone it doesn't work oh yes it
does
it works now
uh bootstrap just opening office in
austin trying to scale the team we have
some sdrs we have some aes we know our
icp we have an idea of the tam yep how
do we go about i'm going to move myself
and my family to austin full-time yeah
good and actually lead the american
venture how do we split america into
addressable bits if you try and do it
all
we're gonna fail it's a really good
question okay so the question is in u.s
expansion how do we split america into
addressable bits um
and the answer there's a couple of
answers one the u.s has geography and
vertical industry right they're
correlated like if you're focused on
pharma you go to new jersey finance new
york city entertainment la
and sometimes for a company i actually
recommend even if you don't have to be
vertically focused be vertically focused
anyway because it will drive your go to
market and you say hey why don't we just
start in transportation so we'll go to i
don't know atlanta or seattle right or
why don't we start in oil and gas
um
so i think that's the advantage you have
in the us is the is the correlation of
vertical and geography um barring that i
mean a lot of people do nfl cities which
i think is a terrible strategy
but you could do that if you want just
if there's a football team put sales
people there not my recommended one but
people do it
so when do you hire a vp of enterprise
sales
is there a magic number where it's not
me anymore yeah so i have a trick on
this one here's another i love this
trick by the way don't hire a vp of
sales hire a director
and let them try and earn the job so so
i got this from one of the companies i
work with where the
the ceo hired a regional sales vp so not
a super big wig but kind of a mini big
wig
and
they went on every sales call together
for like six months
and after that he promoted it
right and the knowledge transfer that
happened during that period was intense
and so by taking somebody still willing
to go sell but who you know has
management potential right because the
person was an rvp they knew how to
manage people it's a magic formula so i
wouldn't actually go look for the
traditional vp of sales i'd try and hire
somebody oh you've been a sales manager
you've managed 610 sales reps awesome
come sell and you and i are gonna be
glued together for six months a year and
then at some point i'm gonna release you
and you're gonna hire a huge sales force
that's that's the magic in my mind
super
hi hi
hi i i wanted you to talk about whether
you think it's a great opportunity that
there's so much technical debt for
startups to just jump in and do
a cleaner better faster job because some
of them are so
bogged down with legacy that they're
terrible experiences for customers yeah
so i think i understood the question
unfortunately the the speakers are aimed
for you to hear not me so i think i got
it
it's what do you do when a startup is so
bogged down with technical debt is it
yep
oh attack something
got it got it i missed the question
sorry i'm going to answer two questions
then so um there's the one she asked and
the one i liked i'll answer them both uh
one was isn't it a great opportunity to
go find somebody else who's dying in
technical debt and attack them and the
answer is yes then welcome to the cycle
of disruption in silicon valley right
you have all these old software vendors
who don't know how to get to the cloud
or can't go to subscription or can't
move to consumption or can't make good
uis look one of the companies i ran the
ui was so entangled with the business
logic that we couldn't fix the ui
right and i would say if you happen to
have that problem i actually believe
private equity people are better than
vcs at solving it right because that's
what they do for a living they buy old
not those super big ones like toma bravo
or vista but the smaller pe firms who
buy kind of 20 to 50 million dollar 20
year old companies they're actually
really good at technical debt because
they have to be so if you're in that
situation maybe go try to find a friend
who works at that one of those companies
there's a great book called managing
legacy code by the way uh which is a
book for how to deal with massive
technical debt but yes
we're startups those people are prime
targets right if you're sure somebody's
drowning go go kill them yeah
have fun
hello
so my name is joffrey from aliyah area
is a
sas ai platform
okay to build ai
projects for all enterprise yeah my
question is
you said and i'm sure you are really
right is that you must be repeatable
before accelerate but you spoke about
sales process especially but do you see
other topics which mean be repeatable is
my question i didn't get all the
questions so
yes can you can you detail
when you say repeatable business yeah
yeah
what are the
the key points um repeatability yeah
reputability more than the such process
you have to figure out
yeah so the question is repeatable sales
process
um
to me there's a couple of elements of it
i mean one is just you have standard
stages we'll start at a mechanical level
but this is where most people fail do
you have seven or eight stages do they
have good definitions are they enforced
by sales management because if a stage
four is supposed to be solution fit
confirmed we'll just pick an example
stage
to me the definition of that
should be customer verifiable right with
one phone call i should be able to
verify that and that one's easy i just
call the customer and say do you think
our product can solve your problem
because that's what solution fit confirm
means
right and if they say no it's not stage
four and if they say yes then it is
stage four so that's the foundation of a
repeatable sales process is clearly
defined stages
absolutely
totally yeah exit criteria is another
way to say it and by the way it may
sound basic but this is the stuff people
get wrong i literally did a consulting
gig with a company that had 100x
pipeline coverage you imagine so their
pipeline was a hundred times bigger and
they still missed their numbers
so so think about that and the answer is
they don't have what i call pipeline
discipline so that's the first level of
it the second level of it is more about
the solution itself in my mind like if
you use a sales process
there's a bunch of them out there medics
selling through curiosity
mastering the complex sales solution
selling customer centric selling that
there's a dozen sales processes they're
next level up they're above the stage
level but having some process where you
try to understand what the customer is
trying to what problem they have
what's the impact of that problem how
much money they can put to solving it
that's the next level up in sales
process and i'll call that sales
methodology when i write sales process
is mechanical sales methodology is more
that next level up yeah
depends on the size about the price the
larger price bigger yeah depends on the
deal size
for sure okay
yeah probably better if you talk to me
and i repeat it good idea
3 nick
[Applause]
yeah our problem is in the us our
customers are telling us that they need
full service they need another kind of
agency yeah
but right now with the fundraising
market agency
yeah what is the best strategy when you
yeah
[Applause]
yeah i think i understand the question
i'm going to genericize the question a
little bit so it may not be perfect but
i'll try to make it applicable to those
who are hanging out um
3 million in are expanding to the u.s
they have a core product that has kind
of ancillary services that get wrapped
around it to make a solution
those i guess in europe those services
are provided by agencies by third
parties
okay this is actually very typical so uh
in europe they're willing to buy his
product and wrap it into a solution
themselves using their own people to add
value the americans and this is not
uncommon because in some ways we're
lazier
they're they're telling you no nick i
want to buy it all from you
and i want you to be responsible for
delivering the business result not just
selling me a package with software um
the tip there's two ways to answer that
question one is you build your own
services organization
if you go that route
then you got to be careful because if it
gets too big people are going to say
you're not a software anymore you're not
a software company nick you're a
services company pretending to be a
software company right so you have to be
very careful it doesn't get bigger than
around 20 or 30 percent of total revenue
once you get above 20 or 30 percent
people are gonna no no it's a disguised
services company
right so i think the correct answer by
the way is to do both create your own
agency or your own services org charge
for it charge market rates maybe even a
little more than market rates uh
actually not maybe charge more than
market rates and then build a partner
network it's super common in the us
but you do both
and then partners will say are you
competing with me you're going to say
i'm mathematically limited to 20 of
revenue i'm never going to let it get
bigger than that because investors are
going to be afraid of me and i'm trying
to build a software company so yes i
will have some services capacity to save
troubled accounts to win strategic deals
but i'm not in this yeah
yeah for r d i'm not in this to build a
services business and it's very
important the person you hire knows that
because because a lot of them are empire
builders and you're going to tell them i
just want you to make customers happy
and not lose money
and they're going to get grand visions
in their mind and try and build a big
services business so you need to make
sure they're on the same page as you
and by charging above market rates
that's how you enable the partners you
say hey my guys are 2 000 bucks a day
the partners charge 1500
and i'm happy for them go buy from a
partner if you can
can you put some of the services in ars
the question yeah that's a really hard
question in my
mind i'm not an expert on this issue
i believe that if you include a
relatively standard onboarding like for
example during one of my engagements we
put gong in
right gong is a call recording tool
conversational intelligence they had a
csm on board us
it was free
it came with the subscription
i'm pretty sure
she was in cogs right she was in cost of
goods sold she wasn't in sales right
just for an accounting
right oh hi you're cogs um and so
she was in cogs is the answer to the
question so yes you can do it had i paid
a lot of money for it
she would have been in services cogs
right she was in subscription cogs right
sorry to speak accounting but but but
that free on border was effectively
subscription cogs at some point if
you're building a services business they
become services cogs because you're
reporting two lines of revenue right
subscription revenue and services
revenue and then you're separating the
cogs
so
but you could build it all in if you
want to but i i personally
i don't love it because it makes it
harder to do what i want to do which is
say you should use one of our partners
oh we have one but we try not to do it
but we've got this awesome partner
network
and if i bundle in free services in my
subscription
i suck the air out of the room for the
partners right who's going to want to
work with me because you give it away
for free
is a very localized product yeah do you
want a microphone or no no all right
bootstrap business saudi arabia
localized product yes um
if we can fund from customers like we
get more uh revenue from customers
and we get a lot of good opportunities
from local business yeah it's a local
product that means we could go with the
mina region not to us
because it's an hr technology got it
okay hr technology local yeah what would
make us
go with vcs and what yeah i know it's my
general question but that's what we you
know like what would make us if we could
get to revenue from customers yeah what
are we losing here or what members you
know looking at them or maybe metrics
that we say no maybe we need to go with
vc or maybe continue sure yeah so
interesting question it relates to it's
a local business uh does hr in the
middle east
and
the question is vc versus bootstrap
and the answer i have is pretty simple
vcs in general
i'm going to use american baseball they
try for home runs right they're trying
to do big things they'll accept a base
hit they'll accept a small outcome
as a cost of doing business but it's not
what they're trying to do for example if
you went to a typical vc and said i'm
trying to build this to 30 million in
revenue and sell it for 90
they would say awesome good luck
i'm not investing because that's not
what i do i try to build billion dollar
businesses and yes we'll sell one for
two or three hundred million once in a
while and we might be happy we did but
it's not what we're here to do so i
think investor alignment is super
important um so if you were to raise
money you need to find somebody who's
trying for that outcome because most vcs
and these are all the big names we all
know that they're not they would not
give you their money and it's not
because they don't like you
or your business it's because they're
trying to build unicorns basically
you taught me from a busy perspective
yeah yeah from a founder's perspective
like are we losing if we're not raising
yeah so the question from a founder
perspective the answer is yeah look in
my opinion
and because you're a local business i
don't think your sacrifice isn't as much
my instinct is you should bootstrap
but the
uh from the founder perspective you look
it's to me it's two sides of one coin
you don't want to raise money from a vc
who wants you to be a billion dollars
and you want to sell it 100 million i've
had friends who wanted to sell 100
million vcs wouldn't let them
right um because they'll say no we're
we're blocking the sale because we have
that right because we're not here to try
and get 100 million we're here to get a
billion and that's what you should have
known when you signed us up so to me
it's one coin
um so from the founder perspective
you're giving up the chance for rapid
growth
um
but that's it's okay if you can
bootstrap and you're profitable you can
make it work
cheers have a good one
hi hi it's working yeah
so i'm from lemax we just tried to
disrupt travel industry and i wanted to
thank you for a fantastic fantastic
presentation
we are now at uh almost three million
arr and uh we had some tough time
because since we are in travel industry
because of the covet yeah
but i would like to hear maybe more
trips uh tricks and tips regarding the
repeatable sales formula because i think
we are near we
i really like the slide about the figure
it out people and scale people because i
think we are somewhere in the middle
and we introduced lots of processes we
split the sales cycle into four and five
phases but we are still not hitting the
quota as we would like to so maybe a few
more details about repeatable models so
it's more on repeatability which is good
um
i think
a lot of people have asked about
repeatability
enterprise segment repeatability look i
think the answer is
try to write a playbook just imagine for
a minute you were going to hire 10 sales
people in one shot and you were going to
train them
if you can't write the playbook then you
don't have repeatability it's kind of a
backwards way of looking at it but just
imagine
right like for a lot of companies i work
with that don't have repeatability yet
who do i call on what title in what size
company right what do i say to them what
will get them to answer my phone call
right what are the top five
problems they're trying to solve say
it's a head of finance
most of the time right because if you
really have repeatability i'll know that
i'm selling to a finance vp
one of their top five priorities is
accurate budgeting i will know that the
top five problems they have with
accurate budgeting are one two three
four five and i know that if i say i can
solve those problems there's a good
chance they will resonate on more than
one of them they'll go oh problem three
and problem four i need to solve those
right i think we are in a good way okay
because
[Music]
it sounds like you're pretty close look
if you can write the playbook
that's big because a lot of people can't
write the playbook because it's a
symptom that you don't have it right
like oh we're repeatable and you say
write the playbook and you say what are
their top five concerns what are their
top five priorities and they don't know
well then you know they don't know if
you know all that
by
it's gonna either be the hiring do you
know who to hire like what they look
like
yes but i'm not sure regarding the
are still enterprise
and i've heard that for the enterprise
statement maybe it would be better for
people to have more more experience than
10 years yeah so that's one dimension
what so we're talking about
in her case maybe it's not the playbooks
that's missing it sounds like they know
a lot about their customer and their
sales process maybe it's the seller the
seller profile
and you were talking about experience
there's a lot of other dimensions
besides experience right one would be
what other products have they sold like
for example i once sold to publishers in
new york media companies
and we tried to hire sales people who
were from who had sold two media
companies before and as it turns out no
offense those are some of the worst
sellers in new york all the good sellers
in new york sell the finance
so we're like even though it's
counterintuitive we're going to stop
hiring people
yeah yeah we're going to say we're going
to stop we thought they were an obvious
target they're actually wrong because
the sales skills usually in sales skills
matter more than knowledge right because
the publishing people had media
knowledge media is not that hard to
learn right federal government hard to
learn media is pretty easy so the sales
this the raw sales salesmanship was more
important than the experience so maybe
it's that one that's the the one i see
the least thought put into and the most
mistakes made is actually the seller
like who are we hiring to sell this
stuff describe them in detail to me and
then challenge your thoughts like is you
know because the obvious answer is
sometimes wrong
so cheers yeah good to see you
hello dave one more okay one more i'll
do some more over there without the
microphone
together thanks for watching session by
the way while we are watching you we say
oh we leave this and we have this
mistake so it was a free translation
i am i'm daria i'm a partner experience
manager at insider insider is a growth
management platform we offer
cross-channel orchestration for our
partners by the way we call our
customers as partners so like i'm a
customer side and while we are scaling
up we have
changed our team experience and partner
experience and customer experience and
as you know that change management was
the key thing there and do you have any
tips for us that how we could run
change management processes in scale-up
companies
yeah so change management in scale up
with respect to customer adoption or no
i heard abort adoption the adoption
adoption metrics that you are tracking
okay
so i don't think i have a good answer to
this question to be honest i can try to
make one up um
i guess the question is what kind of
change
tell me what kind of change
starting from team actually like we
build up the technical onboarding team
we will build
up the product on boarding and we added
the account management we had the people
who were figured out then we
have changed the scaled up and we had
more processes and then we needed to
manage that process and our
responsibility as a partner experience
team to manage all experiences starting
from top
but
i mean look the generic i mean i can
just go back to generic change theory
whatever the guy's name was what was the
person's name
i can't remember but it basically make
people understand the change communicate
while you're doing it try and measure it
understand i mean look the first step is
understanding there's two types of
people and they may not get along or
respect each other and you try
i've always tried to get them to
understand that like we need them like
i'm a figure it out person right but but
we it's just saying we're all figured
out people like we need those people we
do because we want to hire 100 people in
the next year we need to train them and
are you going to do it do you want to do
it like no
so
to me it's legitimizing basically
explaining to people patiently why we
need them and why they're important
because we want to be successful don't
we and that's that's usually the way i
try to approach change is explain the
reason for it
and hopefully people will get on board
at some point if they don't it's a
problem right you have to say no we're
going to do this
like we're going to build an onboarding
team and you may not like the people who
work there and i don't care
but but you're going to help them be
successful in their mission because we
need to hire and train 100 people next
year
okay
good
well awesome thank you so much i still
can't remember the change guy
cheers i'll be out on the back if
anybody has an expression
[Music]
you